 File: _ZRP.cfg 

This particular configuration group can be used to customize the ZRP mod 
itself to your preferences. 

The interface is meant to be relatively easy to use. Click the Help 
button for details on how to use the Modifier program. 

Click on items in the listbox to see what you can change. The choices 
for each item are presented on the right panel. 

You should hover the mouse pointer over the edit boxes, radio buttons 
and checkboxes to see pop-up tips on the use of the selected item. 

The ZRP now ships with more of a default flavor for the out-of-the-box 
experience. If you want the earlier ZRP enhancements, look at the Diary, 
Main Menu, Task Map, and Weapon Tossing items. If you install over your 
existing ZRP setup, some of your current settings will not be changed; 
you will need to use this program to restore the original behavior for 
these items. 

Some special notes about the items:

FileChoice items:  Take care when using these with other mods, as you 
might overwrite changes made by those other mods. If you are solely 
using ZRP with SoC, you can ignore the warnings. You might still need to 
revisit other Field and Checkbox changes to the same file because they 
can be lost when overwritten by a FileChoice version of the file.


Body Removal -- DO NOT INCREASE the time unless you are willing to start 
a new game; saved games tend to crash when trying to restore a body that 
has already been removed. Also, the monster setting may override the NPC 
setting. 


Sleeping bag -- If enabled, drop it from your backpack inventory to sleep. 
You'll see a dialog for selecting the time. You can also press a number 
key from 1 to 9.

If you spin rapidly when awakening, bring down the console (~) and 
type "cam_inert 0" or "cam_inert 0.1" (without quote marks) and press the 
Enter key. Exit the console with ~ again.

To disable the sleeping bag, uncheck the option. In game, drop the 
sleeping bag one more time and make a save.

If you have copied scripts\optional\_custom_zrp.script up a directory to
scripts\_custom_zrp.script, you can press Esc Home to pop up the same 
dialog. This requires ZRP "Debug Mode" checked under Debug Options. See 
docs\DebugSupportChanges.txt for more _custom_zrp.script info.


See the docs\ZRP_ModdingNotes.txt file for a few more details on 
modifying the game without the Modifier. 


All settings marked "default", "original" or "normal" are vanilla, except 
for the following options:

Autosave enhancements are not vanilla.

Inventory Grid Size: ZRP Grid Settings are not vanilla.

Quest Time Limits: quest_time_factor vanilla default is 1 day. Both "Show 
Quest Rewards and "Allow Unwanted Task Rejection" are unchecked in vanilla.

Trade and Search Screens: The vanilla setting is marked "Vanilla Screens".

See the Vanilla.cfg config file for vanilla settings.
