 File: Actor.cfg 

This config file can be used to customize characteristics of the Marked 
One to your preferences. 

Click on items in the listbox to see what you can change. The choices 
for each item are presented on the right panel. 


* Install actor.ltx *

The first item is "* Install actor.ltx *". You will need to select it if 
you do not already have actor.ltx and system.ltx extracted to the 
correct subdirectories. Be careful to select a compatible version -- 
although you can adjust the version with the Mod Compatibility entry.

Steam users: STALKER SoC is pre-patched to 1.0005. You will want to use 
the 1.0005/1.0006 versions here.

WARNING:  This will overwrite any existing actor.ltx/system.ltx files. 
If you have already made changes to other entries in this configuration, 
they will be overwritten.

Tip:  First click on "Carry Weight".  If you see an error message to the 
effect that it can't find something, then you first need to install the 
correct version via the "* Install actor.ltx *" item.  Otherwise you 
don't need to install anything; just proceed to configuration.

If any configuration file already exists, a backup will be created if 
possible, using the configuration filename concatenated with 
".orig_bkup". This will only be done the first time.

The source files and the backup are never modified, so you can always 
return to the original files. Once you have saved any changes, you can 
use the Revert button to restore the original file. 

Note:  The Alt1 version has 1) improved default accuracy of the Marked 
One (not the default accuracy of the guns, just the component 
contributed by your aiming -- see the disp_* variables); 2) increased 
jump height; 3) increased carry weight (150 kg); 4) reduced hunger; 
5) doubled the mini-map red marker view time of spotted enemies (10 sec); 
6) increased ability to walk over low obstacles without having to jump 
(derived from info by hawk318); 7) increased pickup detection radius 
(shows object info at a greater distance when you press your "use" key) 
from 5 to 12 meters; 8) increased likelihood that NPCs will hit you with 
their shots (+20% at all difficulty levels); 9) a 10% longer reach; and 
10) increased vulnerability of the Marked One's head. Items 1 through 9 
are also currently adjustable directly in the Modifier program in other 
Actor.cfg entries.

After installing actor.ltx and system.ltx if needed, you can then 
directly edit various parameters in those files. 

Also see the First-Person Shooter.cfg Modifier configuration.


_Mod Compatibility

The system.ltx file has an entry, current_server_entity_version, that 
varies depending on the patch version of the game that you are using. 
It must be 6 for patch 1.0004 and 7 for patches 1.0005 and 1.0006.  You 
must make sure this value is correct BEFORE PLAYING -- otherwise you can 
play the game and even make saves, but those saves won't load.


Camera Viewpoint

You can specify a number up to 1.0 to position your viewpoint relative 
to the Marked One's height in the game.  The default of 0.85 makes it 
seem as if your eyes are in Marked One's chest.


Carry Weight

You can change the weight that the Marked One can carry. Hover over the 
edit boxes and follow the advice of the tooltips here. The 
max_walk_weight should be greater than the the other two values; it is 
the value at which Marked One can no longer move. 


Climbing

You can increase his ability to walk or climb over small obstacles, by 
increasing his climbing coefficient. Default is 0.7, Alt1 uses 1.0. 
This makes the player "sticky"; avoid too high a value or you will not 
be able to get off a ladder!


Difficulty - Part 1

You can determine the innate (unprotected) vulnerability of the Marked 
One to damage. The immunities_sect value is the name of a section that 
contains the default immunity settings for the different kinds of damage 
that can be delivered to the Marked One.

The valid section names are:
  actor_immunities_gd_novice (50% of damage) 
  actor_immunities_gd_stalker (65% of damage) 
  actor_immunities_gd_veteran (80% of damage) 
  actor_immunities_gd_master (100% of damage) 

In vanilla STALKER, the setting is always actor_immunities_gd_master, 
which means that 100% of the damage is applied to the Marked One.  This 
damage is reduced by armor and protective artifacts, but this setting 
is not affected by the difficulty setting in the game's Options menu. 
You can change that here.

CAUTION:  Be sure that the field only has one valid section name in 
it before clicking the Apply button.  The Modifier does not currently 
perform any input validation.

health_hit_part - This factor adjusts how much you are hurt when 
damaged.  This setting can range between 0.0 (no damage applied) and 1.0 
(normal full damage to health).

power_hit_part - When hurt, your stamina takes a beating as well. 
This value determines just how much.  While the value can range from 
0.0 to 1.0, the default is low.


Difficulty - Part 2

NPC Accuracy - This is the only setting affected by your choice of 
difficulty in the game's Options menu.  Note that even this setting 
is limited based on the hit_probability_max_dist setting, which you 
can change in the Modifier's Experimental configuration under Weapons 
in this version of the ZRP, as well as the FirstPersonShooter config.

Each setting determines what percentage of shots made by the NPC will 
hit the target if the NPC is within hit_probability_max_dist for the 
corresponding difficulty.  The hit percentage drops as the distance 
increases beyond that.

The defaults range from novice's 20% (0.20) to master's 50% (0.50). 
You can reduce the novice setting to make the novice game easier, or 
increase the master setting to make the master game more difficult.


Difficulty - Part 3

Marked One's Accuracy Contribution

You can use this to improve the default accuracy of the Marked One, by 
controlling the component contributed by your aiming.

base_disp - Base accuracy factor. Default value is 0.8, Alt1 uses 0.4 
(50% improvement in player contribution).

disp_aim - Aiming Down the Sights accuracy factor. Default value is 
0.04 (95% improvement), Alt1 uses 0.001 (99.2%).

disp_crouch_factor - Crouching accuracy factor. This value is added 
to 1.0 and the result is multiplied by the base accuracy. Default 
value is -0.2 (result is 80% of base), Alt1 uses -0.4 (60%).

disp_crouch_no_acc_factor - Low Crouching accuracy factor. This value 
is added to 1.0 and the result is multiplied by the base accuracy.
Default value is -0.4 (result is 60% of base), Alt1 uses -0.9 (10%).

Also see FirstPersonShooter.cfg and the associated config notes.


Endurance - Part 1

The stand_power setting determines the speed of recovery while you 
stand still.  The walk_power setting controls the rate at which your 
stamina decreases while walking, and the walk_weight_power controls 
the rate while you are over your nominal carry weight.


Endurance - Part 2

Here you can set the trip points for running and walking exhaustion. 


Enemy on Radar

Use this to increase or decrease the amount of time that the red 
marker persists on the mini-map after the enemy moves out of your 
sight.


HUD Cursor

You can determine the size of the crosshairs on your game if you have 
crosshairs displayed.  (This change actually modifies system.ltx.)


Hunger

You can reduce how often Marked One gets hungry. The default is 
0.000015. Lowering this value increases how long Marked One can go 
before he needs to eat. 


Item PickUp

You can increase the distance at which Marked One will detect items 
lying in the ground. Default value is 5 meters, Alt1 uses 12.

You can also control his reach when picking up objects. Default 
value is 2 meters, Alt1 uses 2.2.


Jumping

You can increase the height that he can jump, by increasing his initial 
speed. Six is the default value. Try 9 if you want to be able to climb 
up on a bus but not jump over it. 

You can also increase his direction control while airborne. Default 
value is 0.1, Alt1 uses 0.2. 


Radiation

You can reduce (or increase) the speed of damage that radiation causes.



A lot more items can be added to the Actor.cfg file to permit the 
manipulation of other characteristics. 

A REMINDER:  The Revert button will restore the original versions of the 
modified files -- which will undo ALL OTHER CHANGES to those files as 
well.

See the ZRP_ModdingNotes.txt file for more details on modifying STALKER. 

