 File: QuestOverhaul_2.cfg - English version

This is an updated Quest Overhaul, based on Decane's original 
effort.  Due to the nature of the ZRP, this version has been 
streamlined for compatibility.

The original version had repair support that required custom 
localization files.  Since the ZRP has optional Duty/Freedom 
repair individuals, this support is omitted.  See below.

Do not use this 1.07 version of the ZRP or its QO with any 
prior QO version, including the one that was part of ZRP 
1.05.  Saves made with prior QO versions are not compatible. 

The original QO package changed some quest timings and moved 
some autoquests to standard quests.  It also "unlocked" quite 
a few extra quests, most of which are included here.  Some 
additional modifications exist; stealing the sniper rifle 
is more difficult and has expected consequences as well, for 
example.

There are a couple of new tasks not in vanilla nor in the 
original QO.  Some QO quests are now part of the standard 
ZRP package.  Some quests require the addition of new items 
to the game, and that's where this configuration file enters 
the picture.

This version of the QO uses the newer ui_icon_equipment.dds 
included with ZRP 1.07, which also has support for the ABC 
sleeping bag, a couple of different Explosives Carry mods, 
(one of which is included as an option) and the Artifact 
Swap minimod.

There are two configuration options, one to add additional 
quest items (thus enabling the quests) and one to add a 
couple of "special" weapons.  Warning: These weapons are a 
bit overpowered and their addition may spoil gameplay. 
One will run out of special ammo and the replacement stuff 
is not currently available, but the other can make dealing 
with MonoMartyrs a little too easy.

These options can be enabled at any time.  However, once 
the quest items are added, they cannot be removed through 
normal means.  Unchecking the checkboxes will have no 
effect on a game loaded when the options were enabled. 

Note: One of the items added is a special scope for a 
couple of the weapons, one a quest reward and the other a 
"special" weapon.  But the scope itself must first be found 
somewhere in the game.  Please don't spoil it for others 
by blurting out the location when you find it!



