
   File:  SoundManagement.cfg

This configuration controls the way the sounds in the game are 
played.  If using any sound mod along with the ZRP, please check 
to see if you have conflicting files before using the FileChoice 
entries, as these entries overwrite the existing sound script 
and config files (not the sounds themselves).  If you wish to 
undo your changes, you can use the Revert button to restore the 
original installation configuration.


Background Sounds

Ambient sounds can be played frequently, moderately often or 
rarely.  The default is frequently, which loads a background 
sound every 5 to 8 seconds.  You can increase this to 50 to 80 
seconds, or 200 to 400 seconds between ambient background 
noises.

There is also a fourth choice, which reduces the frequency of 
ambient effects by a factor of 10 as well as the 40X decrease 
in sounds.


NPC Chatter Control

ZRP 1.07 uses a new sound manager for NPC "chatter".  It does 
not require a new game and it does not affect saves, so you can 
change it whenever you wish.

The choices for using it include the vanilla configuration, a 
vanilla-like form which reduces the assigned sounds for each 
NPC, and the new form which reduces the frequency of speech for 
NPCs to a more tolerable level.

This last form is the default.  It provides the ability to 
limit the repeating NPCs to say their lines only once per 
session, or even randomly not say anything.

This version is experimental, and might result in more frequent 
garbage collection by the game, one of the factors that can 
contribute to some stuttering.  If you don't like it, you can 
try out the "vanilla-compatible" replacement scheme, which 
lets the NPCs chatter as before but still reduces the load of 
sounds available to each NPC.  Then use the configuration 
entries to silence the NPCs you don't want to hear.

Finally you can also use the vanilla setup.  Please note that 
if you do, you will not be able to use the Sound Annoyances 
entries to quiet the chatterboxes via the Modifier, as the 
vanilla configuration is packed in a database file.

See also docs\NPC_Chatter_Control.txt for more details on the 
NPC chatter control support.


Sound Annoyances, Parts 1, 2, and 3

Unlike prior ZRP versions, 1.07 does not suppress annoying 
sounds by default, so if they are still an issue for you, this 
is the section for you.

If you have left the NPC Chatter Control at the default or 
used the vanilla-compatible version, you can still use these 
entries to shut up individuals that you still find annoying.

Just select the checkbox for the NPC (or NPC group) you wish 
to silence, then click the Apply button.  If you want to hear 
an NPC again, uncheck the box and click Apply.

