  File: Tweaks.cfg

This configuration is a simple extension to permit the 
adjustment of certain game options not found in other 
Modifier configuration files.

Move the mouse over the fields and radio buttons to see 
tips on using this configuration.

Install Alife.ltx

If you don't already have a copy of this file in your 
gamedata subdirectory, you can add it with this option. 

Alife.ltx Tweaks

You can set the starting time, the starting date, and 
the time you spend on one level before the game will 
automatically save your progress.

Alife.ltx Advanced Tweaks

You can change the default speed ratio of the game's 
clock to a real clock.  The default is 10 to 1.

For a 24-hour day, set it to 1.

A new game is required for this setting to be used. 
There is also a set of debug command sequences that 
allow you to change this time on-the-fly while playing 
the game -- see the gamedata\Docs\DebugSupportChanges.txt 
file, the Debug time commands section.

The switch_distance is the radius of the sphere around 
the player which "switches" NPCs from offline to online 
as they enter it.  If your CPU can handle it, you can try 
1200 to activate all AI activity on a level.

The objects_per_update setting can be used to limit the 
rendering crashes on some levels -- reduce the value by 
one or two. Alternatively, you can increase the value 
from the default of 10 to 12 or so as an experiment to 
improve the smoothness of the gameplay experience.


TZIO/Free Play Tweaks

You can start the game with the storyline removed by 
selecting the Final Level/Free Play option in the ZRP 
Teleport menu (Esc T).  Normally the option also provides 
you with a loadout commensurate with your level of 
progress in the game.  If desired, you can start the 
game in free play mode with only a knife.

To do this, first check the "Add only a knife" option and 
click the Apply button.  Then start a new game.  When the 
game starts in Sid's office, you can then press Esc T to 
access the ZRP Teleport menu.  Press E to "Equip only", 
then press F to select the free play option.

That will bypass all the storyline stuff and let you 
begin your game in the Cordon.

This section will have more options as they are developed 
for extending play beyond the normal game.


Flashing Disk I/O Icon

There's an icon at the lower right of the in-game HUD 
display that flashes when the game is loading resources 
from the hard drive or from the OS cache memory. Some 
find it annoying. You can install an invisible version of 
that icon so that you are not distracted while playing.


Item Healing

Several consumable items in the vanilla game also 
provide a bit of healing in addition to their primary 
function. You can adjust that here. Normally you would 
use this to eliminate the healing added by bandages, 
food and drink.

The primary function of these items is not changed; 
food still reduces hunger, vodka reduces absorbed 
radioactives, bandages reduce bleeding.