=====================================
Known issues and Game Quirks:
=====================================

General:

Patch 1.0006 introduces new engine bugs. You cannot eat or use 
items directly from a corpse; move them to your inventory first. 
Sometimes using an item yourself will cause the same crash. 
There was also an issue with drop-a-medkit healing in ZRP with 
patch 1.0006. This is fixed in ZRP 1.07 R5.

Also fixed is a rare crash during level changes. Patch 1.0006 
now destroys the bind_stalker's bind_object as you leave a level 
yet still calls the on_item_drop callback on every item in your 
inventory in a parallel thread. This can crash your game if the 
destruction occurs before the first item is processed.

Sometimes the rain is accompanied by flashing triangles.  There 
is something not properly initialized in the graphics engine, 
perhaps relating to shaders.  Until a graphics specialist can 
address this, one workaround is to exit and relaunch the game. 
You can also use the temporary ZSU script fix to reset the rain 
in the current game session. Tip: Avoid Alt-tabbing in/out of 
the game.

A tossed weapon on NPC death can be lost or destroyed by the 
game, causing a CTD as other NPCs attempt to evaluate it.  This 
can give the appearance of a lockup or freeze, and you may have 
to use the Task Manager (ctrl-alt-del) to terminate the game 
process.

Certain anomalies have a radius and/or a location that makes 
life virtually impossible for nearby stalkers, even with Red75's 
SANB mini-mod.  This will eventually be fixed, but the current 
workaround is to go beyond switch distance or change levels so 
that the NPCs can safely navigate past the deadly obstruction in 
offline mode.

Certain resolutions, notably 1280x720 and 800x600, do not show 
news updates in the lower left of the display.  This is an 
"engine" problem. Change to a higher resolution if possible. The 
news items are in your PDA log.

"Eliminate Camp" task references are not properly tracked.  This 
may be a game engine issue.  One effect is the "current task" 
function (default key is TAB) won't properly show the current 
task. The PDA contains the correct info. 

Use the debug time shifting with caution -- non-10X speeds may 
affect scenarios.  For example, using a 1X speed for the 
Agroprom rescue of Mole might prevent the helicopter from 
making his rounds of the Agroprom compound. It can also cause 
strange behavior of Kruglov and his group in Rostok.

Some task "Return for reward" identifiers might be incorrect, as 
only the last one for each taskgiver is shown, and it is possible 
to complete the last task before an earlier one. This should be 
fixed as of ZRP 1.07 R5.

The game will transfer any object out of your inventory to meet 
an external requirement (e.g., bring a Night Star) without regard 
to whether you have it on your belt or not. In some cases this 
can mean that you suffer from radiation poisoning because your 
protection was removed. 

After a crash, the "Last Save" button is likely NOT the last save 
you expect, because the crash lost that info. It is the last save 
of the previous gaming session. 

Double-clicking a red target in the task list does not always 
select the objective on the map, but it does center the map view 
on the objective. 

The task to find the Dutyer's weapon can display a marker where 
the weapon was, but it is often stored in the inventory of the 
weapon's bearer or strapped to his back, and this is not tracked 
by the game until you are on the same level as the one carrying 
the weapon. 

NPCs will often reset to their spawning positions and logic when 
you leave and return to a level, although most of the immersion 
breakers for these have been resolved. Examples include 
Kruglov/Semenov whining to Sakharov and the Skull group 
restarting at the western entrance to Army Warehouses. Solutions 
to these have been implemented over time and most should be gone 
in ZRP 1.07 R5RC.

Some game doors on a level can "break" and become inert. These 
can be fixed by executing a ZSU script while near the broken 
door. Doors that commonly break: the Cordon trader's door, the 
Dark Valley doors (the door to X18, Shaggy's cell door, the 
armory door) and the Yantar scientist bunker doors.  Other 
doors have been known to break in X18, Pripyat, the Sarcophagus 
and Monolith Control.

An alternative is to use a workaround.  You can bump the inert 
door to get it to open enough to push it all the way open.  This 
solution is sufficient for all the doors except the door to X18. 
Or you can use Esc D F after enabling the ZRP debug mode.  This 
will teleport past most doors to permit you to push it open from 
within.  It will remove the X18 door entirely and permit you to 
complete the pending task.  See the debug notes for teleporting 
via Esc D F.

Switches in X16 and X19 can also break. You can use the ZRP 
support utilities to fix broken switches as well.

The physics engine is quirky. Collision handling can send bodies 
(or even you) flying, just to keep two objects from trying to 
occupy the same space. 

Certain dynamic quests do not behave well when you reload a 
save made in the middle of the task.  Examples include helping 
Bullet rescue his friend (make a save as he starts eastward 
from the west side of Dark Valley) and siding with Freedom 
against Skull's group (make saves before talking to Lukash). 

Some NPCs at camps will enter into a fugue state. Sometimes you 
can talk to them to snap them out of it, or use the Reset NPC 
ZSU script. As of ZRP 1.07 R4, most NPCs should automatically 
snap out of it within a few seconds.

Stealth:

Saving while being stealthy near enemy doesn't work, as the 
initialization while loading the save can alert the bad guys 
to your presence, especially if there are any dead NPCs nearby. 
Tips: Make a save before any NPC is hurt or alerted. Equip a 
quiet weapon (e.g., knife) before saving, and make sure you are 
not visible to any enemy NPCs when you save. You should not be 
where any NPCs could see you if they switch online facing in 
your direction. Also, not everything in the game that is a 
vision barrier to you is one to the NPCs.

As of ZRP 1.07 R5, if you stealthily take down an enemy before 
he identifies any enemies (not just you), then you can make 
a save that will preserve that "unknown killer" information. 
Upon reloading that save, his body might alert his associates 
but they will not know that you killed him nor will they know 
where you were when you did that.

Garbage: 

The initial bandit attack on the Garbage vehicle graveyard from 
the west can stall if you move too far west before talking to 
Bes.  The objective remains, however, and you can complete it 
and perhaps even remind the bandits what they want to do simply 
by taking the attack to them.

Agroprom Underground:

The Agroprom underground secrets and quest targets do not 
reliably display on the map. (Fixed as of ZRP 1.07 R5.)

NPCs that transition into the underground while you are there 
will sometimes spawn and immediately fry in the Electro-filled 
tunnel.  They will be okay if the transition is made while you 
are not there.

Bar:

The arena still has issues. You should not save while in the 
battle zone except right after you are transported there. 

You should also check your log after completing an arena battle; 
critical SMap Location errors can corrupt saves. This occurs 
because the game deletes the NPCs you fought while you are 
still in range of their mini-map spots, and sometimes the game 
doesn't remove the spot before it deletes the body. This 
orphaned spot is saved but not properly loaded as it no longer 
has a parent. 

As of ZRP 1.07 R5, an active workaround is in place which will 
hopefully prevent the problem.

Dark Valley: 

Shaggy can spawn outside his cell due to spawn radius. If this 
happens to you, you can still 'free' him the normal way via 
the switch on the wall next to his cell. A workaround is in 
place in ZRP 1.07 R5RC that will automatically handle the 
situation if he is still in the cellar. If he spawns outside 
of the cellar, he may have trouble surviving the return to his 
cell.

The "Defend the Dutyers" task requires that you move into the 
bandit base to switch the attackers online.  They are not 
currently online until you approach to within 125 meters of 
their camp at the north end of the base.  This was broken in 
patch 1.0004, along with the "defend the stalkers at the 
campsite" task in Army Warehouses. The latter task is partially 
fixed by the bardak bug fix attempt at the heart of the ZRP, but 
the DV task has not yet been addressed. 

You can "start the action" if you increase switch_distance in 
config\alife.ltx from 150 to 400. Otherwise just approach the 
bandit base.

X16: 

The timer reset exploit still exists. 

Rostok:

Some enemy could join a camp even though they were offline. The 
normal culprits were the bandit Poker and some of the mercs that 
ambushed Kruglov's group. This is fixed in ZRP 1.07 with a new 
game.

Yantar: 

A post-X16 helicopter can be a victim of friendly fire; it can 
get in the way of the other. 

The pre-X16 psi-emitter post-process effect can be at full value 
after a save/reload; the game is not preserving the current 
value. (Fixed in ZRP 1.07 R4.)

Army Warehouses: 

Going south of the farmstead between it and the Freedom base 
will automatically make you enemies with one of the snipers. 
This will make you enemies with Freedom, unless you are already 
very solidly friends with them.  In that case, the sniper will 
merely turn neutral, and when you go back north of that zone 
you will be restored to friendship with him.  As of 1.07 R3, 
this no longer occurs once Skull's group is eliminated.

Max might stall when facing his troops before the battle with 
their sworn enemy. This is because one of the troops is missing, 
most likely stuck trying to get to the location. A save/reload 
might fix it, or go away for a bit to allow the NPC to join up 
with the group. Then return to join the battle group. 

Later, Max will attempt to return to the base through a wall that 
may be still standing. Go away for a bit and he will make it back 
okay. 

You must not be seen by Pavlik to avoid failing the task, but you 
must also be close enough to him to get him to turn enemy. 
Otherwise, dealing with him could make you the enemy of the 
faction you are trying to help. 

It is possible that you are already friends with Freedom when you 
take on the Pavlik task. Instead of becoming enemy, he becomes 
merely neutral. It's okay to deal with him, even so -- but only 
after you are explicitly told to do so. This is not the first 
item on the quest. 

The Defend the Campsite autoquest given by Lukash would sometimes 
autocomplete due to improper "state" initialization -- but the 
mercs would still attack the stalkers afterward. This automatic 
completion should not occur as of ZRP 1.07 R5RC.  (Requires new 
game; mil_lager's useless states conflicted with the task.)

Red Forest: 

As with Yantar, the pre-X19 psi-emitter post-process effect can 
be at full value after a save/reload; the game is not preserving 
the current value. (Fixed in ZRP 1.07 R4.)

The visibility indicator sticks after encountering the psydog. 
A save/reload will correct this. 

Pripyat: 

Lots of torches at night will shred framerate on some PCs. You 
can reduce this by enabling NPC Smart Flashlights via the 
Modifier's Experimental.cfg configuration file.


See also QuirksInTheGame.txt and the ZRP_Changes_*.txt files.
